Now, once we have our pages
that are being laid out,
we have some additional layout
considerations, as you see right now,
we have 1 to 4 on the top 5 and
6 that are in the middle somewhere.
There's big gaps between these things,
there's no gaps between other
elements that are here on the page.
So why this and
how do we make it different?
That's what these next
properties are all about.
So I'm going to set my display to
flex my flex-flow to row wrap.
And the next property we'll
look at is justify content.
So here for justifying content, this is
going to determine the distribution of
all these little flex items, the li's,
in this case, within the container for
the parent, this case, the ul, and
they're so-called on the main axis.
What is the main axis?
Anyone wanna take a guess at
what the main axis would be?
>> Center the right.
>> In this case it's the row,
because we've displayed
flex-flow as row wrap,
if I said this as column,
where would justify content apply now.
On the column, okay?
The main axis is the one that you
are specifying Justified in fle-flow,
all right?
So justify content here,
we can say something like,
these are all the fun ones,
all the fun properties here.
We could say flex-end,
that is gonna send us all the way
over to the right so
now we have right aligned items.
Guess what center is going to do?
[INAUDIBLE].
>> Yeah, there we go,
center all of our items in space, okay?
And of course flex start as the default
property and that in this case, in our
left to right world, it's gonna smash
everything over to the left hand side.
So those are the easy ones,
start and center.
Then we have the ones that like,
make everybody think.
So one of my favorite ones of those
that remain is space between.
Anyone want to guess
what space between does?
>> It's gonna put space
between each of the.
>> Yeah, so
this is going to take all the boxes,
shove them all the way over to
the left and the right, and
any extra space will go in
between each one of those boxes.
So space between.
So notice, 5 and 6, because there's
only two boxes in that row,
there's a lot of space between them.
>> So it's like all justify.
>> So it's all justified left and right.
And any of that extra space which there
isn't much on that first row that will be
placed evenly between
each one of those boxes.
So space between is generally the one
to use for like laying out nav-bars,
occasionally you wanna use center, but
it's usually either space between or
center are the two that are going
to work for laying out a nav-bar.
These other ones are also useful,
space evenly is another one.
Anyone want to guess what
space evenly is going to do.
>> Now, even at the space
>> Even at the space on all sides,
that's the key on all sides, so
if I say space evenly notice
that box number 1 is not quite
all the way to the left and
box four is not quite all
the way to the right, see that?
So this is the downside to space evenly,
you might think, well,
why wouldn't we always use that?
Because your designer friends
are gonna get mad that the edges of
those boxes are not lining up correctly,
that's why.
So space evenly looks great just
like this, but if you're really
trying to align with other items on
the page, you probably want space between.
Notice again that boxes 5 and
6, they are spaced evenly.
That space to the left of 5,
to the right of 6, and
in between those boxes is all the same.
Okay, then we have the mind-blowing one,
good times, is space around.
And I recommend just avoiding this one
because again this is one of the ones that
I've never really needed to use in real
life, does anyone want to try to explain
what's going on here for space around
>> The space around it is all even so
when you have two things like 5 and 6
like they add up together to make it look
like the space in between
them is twice as much.
>> Exactly, exactly.
So, here we go.
The space you can kinda see it
right here at 1 between 1 and
the edge of its box and 4 and
the edge the edge of its box, okay?
Right there, that is the space.
So that's 1x,
the space in between here is 2x.
So we have a space at the edge of 3 and
the space of the beginning of 4,
all right?
And likewise down here for number 5,
the space is right here and
right here and as James was saying,
right in between,
we have 2x, twice that space in between.
So the hard part here is that, of course,
things don't line up on
the edges correctly.
It makes your designer friends mad, and
it's very confusing to remember that
we've got 2x between our boxes.
And so, this is one that I just typically
avoid using when I'm working with flexbox.
Space between and center are often
the two values that I use most.
Any questions on that?
Okay, cool.
So I'm here to set my justify
content now to center, and
I'm going to give you the next property.
This one is align-items.
Now, what is align-items do,
we're justifying our content.
Aligning items just sounds like synonyms,
doesn't it?
[LAUGH] it means exactly the same thing,
but we've just used different words.
So what is align-items mean and
how is it different than justify content?
>> Stuff inside the boxes?
>> It's not anything inside the boxes
>> Instead of like,
beginning in the end of the row or
like the, in this case the law left and
the right, it's top and bottom.
>> Exactly, so
this is the so-called cross axis.
So whatever you have here in flex up flow,
that's our main axis, to the verge of
the row, align-items is the cross axis, in
this case the column, up and down, okay?
So how are we aligning these
things in that Cross-space.
So if I said align-items center,
where are my boxes going to go?
Anyone wanna make a prediction?
>> In the middle.
So this is one of the favourites for
a lot of people justify content
center align-items center to try to align
things in the middle of the page, okay?
Yeah.
>> So, this is the first time we've
started doing any up or down adjustments.
>> Okay.
>> I noticed that like 1 to
4 are a specific amount of
space away from 5 and 6.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> What's the default there
that it's falling into.
>> I think what you'll see is this
is 1x again above these boxes and
1x is here and
this space in between is 2x.
>> I'm sorry, I mean even before
we added the align-items and
still had a bunch of space in there,
think.
You remember now?
>> This space, what's going on here?
I think this space and
this space are the same.
So it's basically taken,
how much room do the boxes take up?
Take whatever space is left over and
stick it in between evenly.
>> It's because we've hard-coded
the height of the ul.
>> Yes.
>> 500 pixels.
>> And that's part of it too.
We hard-coded the height of the ul and
we hard-coded the heights of our lis.
And the only reason to do that
ever is to do a demo like this, so
that you can actually see what's going on.
If I didn't hard-code these,
it would be very difficult to
see what was happening, yeah.
Okay, so there's some other options here
for align-items that may be useful to you.
I showed you center stretch
is always a good one.
What is stretch gonna do?
Fill the space.
Cool, probably cause I have a hard-coded.
>> The high.
>> High is hard-coded,
what happens if I take the high out?
There we go,
that's what we would expect, okay?
So stretch is going to stretch them unless
you have the high hard-coded in which case
A shame on you and B, [LAUGH] it's
not going to do what you expect.
There's some other ones that are here,
you're welcome to experiment with them, so
flex-start, flex-end, space between,
space around, space evenly.
I don't feel like I really need
to go through all of these,
they're the same kind of values that
you just had for justify content.
Now we're gonna look at them in the space.
Make sense?
Okay, so
all of these properties obviously,
cuz they're on the ul are all
properties of the parent, okay?
Let's take a look at the children now.
So what we're going to do for
the children,
let me just pull up the HTML here.
We have two children that
have a class of flex2, okay?
Just so that you know that,
that is a thing.
And so what I can do here is if I said,
flex2,
my class of flex2,
let's say border 2 pixels,
dotted blue, and
it's gonna put a blue border
around this two items so
that you know what they are.
I'm gonna make it fatter,
5 pixels so you can see it, okay?
Those are the two items that
have that class of flex 2.
Now what we can do is we can
change the order of things here.
So right now these, of course are in the
order that they appear in the allies 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6 but
we can also reorder things here in space.
So we could say, for
example, order: 1;.
That's actually going to
move our boxes to the end.
All of the boxes that have that class
of flex2, they will go to the end.
Weird, right?
>> Start at 0?
>> It starts at 0.
So by default everybody has an order of 0.
Sometimes we can't like humans and
sometimes we can't like engineers.
I'm sorry, I wish we could just
count one way all the time.
But, so anyway, so those boxes up
there are zeros and this is ones and
that's why they come later.
Okay, you could make those
numbers anything you want.
If we make this -1, they move to
the start, as you might expect,
because -1 comes before 0, all right?
Now another property that we
can add here is flex-basis.
And flex-basis is one that
people always forget about.
You always think about width, right?
So if I said for my lis, if I said
the width was 25%, there we go.
So pretty, very gridlike, yes?
But we have just killed all of
the flex in our flex boxes.
Because with width,
those boxes will never be 24.9%,
they will never be 25.1%,
they will always be 25.00000%.
They actually don't flex at all even
though we're working with percentages.
So flex-basis is the appropriate dimension
to work with for quote with, all right?
And the reason why is
because flex-basis is we're
going to make these 25% kind of, kind of.
So sometimes they may
be a little bit less,
sometimes they might be a little bit more,
all right?
And again, this is a little bit artificial
because I've got some stuff that's
hard-coded in here.
So anytime you feel compelled to reach for
width and
you're working with flexbox,
use flex-basis instead.
>> So if Flex-direction is at column and
then flex-basis will be the height?
>> Yes.
Flex-basis, applies to the main axis, yes.
Not the cross axis.